Geomantic
=========

A script to generate figures with which to fill in a Geomancy chart.

Totally useless for anyone who doesn't actually practice geomancy, a medieval divinitory system that is now very obscure.

Curious about geomancy?

Geomancy relies on a set of sixteen figure, each figure made up of four lines of binary values -- like the hexagrams of the I Ching, only with fewer lines. 
Each line represents a different classical element (fire, air, water, earth), and has either one point or two points. 
Four such figures are generated by random means -- coin flips, dice rolls, whatever -- and plugged into the first four slots of an escutcheon-shaped chart with fifteen such slots. 
The rest of the figures are generated by manipulating the first four figures and their derivatives.
Divination can be done solely with the escutcheon chart, or the figures can be transcribed into a square, 12-slot chart based on the houses of the zodiac, which can provide a more nuanced reading.

This script is simply intended to generate the first four and derive the other eleven figures so that a geomancer can fill in the charts without actually having to do the math involved, because I always screw up at least one of them.

For more on geomancy, I recommend the book The Art and Practice of Geomancy by John Michael Greer.

This project is ongoing and kind of a mess. It's really just my beginner project as a Rubyist, to see if I can write a script myself that will scratch an itch.

Update, three years later: I've reqritten the code for this like three times and not uploaded it, and now I'm working on a fourth iteration, this time storing the basic data about a reading and the first four figures in a database, because maybe I'll want to refer back to a previous chart later, and also to give me more practice with databases. Which I am geek enough to enjoy.
